---
title: "Book review- Journal IDA"
subtitle: " Zohoori, F. V., & Duckworth, R. M. (Eds.). (2019). The Impact of Nutrition and Diet on Oral Health. Karger Medical and Scientific Publishers"
author: 
  - M. Crowe, Dublin Dental University Hospital, Trinity College Dublin
output:
  word_document: default
  word_document:
    toc: no  
  html_document:
    keep_md: yes
    toc: yes
    toc_float: yes
    number_sections: yes
    code_folding: hide
    self_contained: no
    fig_caption: yes
  pdf_document:
    toc: yes
editor_options:
  chunk_output_type: inline
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

The publication of this text is a valuable and timely contribution to
the discipline of nutrition and oral health. The editors have compiled a
wide range of relevant topics and produced an evidence- based monograph
on nutrition that will be a welcome addition to the libraries of
universities, dental and medical teams and dietitians or nutritionists.
It is particularly timely as there have been few recent updates to other
textbooks on this subject in an era when social media "influencers" can
easily promote misinformed dietary information or 'nutribabble'. The
book is divided into 3 sections and the chapters are contributed by
those with a particular expertise or relevant research interest. 

Thefirst section contains xx chapters that outline ...

The second section is

The final section comprises of ..

Overall, the editors have successfully maximised the relevant
information in a concise readable format while still delivering an
impactful volume to the subject area. The chapters are well references....

A chapter on probiotics I. interesting seems many

there is a concise introduction to nutrigenomics

Omics-based precision dentistry, AI and machine learning for detection
and prediction- little focus on evaluation of evidence in light of big
data science- transition from NHST to modelling and simulation- Bayesian
statistics Wearable devices- future of dietary estimation- systems
approach -- interidiscip digital Diet and TMJ???

Policy makers, food industry and academia

The final chapter discusses the physiological and sensory processes
involved in oral food processing and the impact on cephalic phase
responses. gustation, cognition from gustation . Interestingly, while
the role of taste is..., , retropharyngeal olfaction, the key
sensory.... flavour (both gustation and olfaction) in food
choice....cognition Anosmia loss of smell, dysgueisa (later taste)

This publication is a valuable addition at a time when there appears to
be an increasing awareness of the importance of the topic for the dental
profession.

Omitted Food based dietary guidelines out of date..... While no text can
include all relevant areas, there are a few omissions that are worth
mentioning. Given the importance of preventive approaches and dental
disease more guidance on dietary intervention or assessment techniques,
changes in nutrient requirements through the life cycle and specific
effects of food- derived constituents in modifying the progression of
dental caries would have been useful The oral effects of the growth in
the use of non-nutritive sweeteners or sugar polyols and starch
hydrolysates as food ingredients is still under-researched(///blk- check
See sugar book). Eating patterns and the anticariogenic effect of
specific food constituents requires further research. A chapter on
nutritional assessment, including anthropometrics, and dietary
counselling would have been useful as most dentists do not have adequate
knowledge about these practical skills and implications for oral health.

The importance of dietary advice post oral surgery or cancer treatment
...useful tips/

While no text can include all relevant areas, there are a few omissions
that are worth mentioning. Given the importance of preventive approaches
and dental disease more guidance on dietary intervention or assessment
techniques, changes in nutrient requirements through the life cycle and
specific effects of food- derived constituents in modifying the
progression of dental caries would have been useful The oral effects of
the growth in the use of non-nutritive sweeteners or sugar polyols and
starch hydrolysates as food ingredients is still
under-researched(///blk- check See sugar book). Eating patterns and the
anticariogenic effect of specific food constituents requires further
reseaerch
